
			oct2ptcl

oct2ptcl is a translator from OCT to ptcl.  It reads OCT facets
describing ptolemy palettes, universes and galaxies, extracts the
netlist information and produces an equivalent ptcl script.  It
is useful for quickly running one or more pre-existing ptolemy
universes.  For example, to run *every* SDF demo, just type:

    oct2ptcl -rgtv ~ptdesign/src/domains/sdf/demo/init.pal | ptcl

This can be used to quickly verify that a change you have made to ptolemy
hasn't broken anything in any major way.

The combination of oct2ptcl and ptcl is relatively quick compared to
pigi.  oct2ptcl can translate an entire universe in a few seconds.
Translating every SDF demo (as in the example above) takes less than a
minute (Sparc10), and it requires less than 20 seconds for ptcl to
parse the result (of course, actually running the demos takes longer:
5-10 minutes).

oct2ptcl is a hack.  The bulk of it was written over two days,
and improved the following week.  So don't be suprised if it gives
you a terse error message and dumps core.  In theory oct2ptcl will
work on domains other than SDF and on multi-domain facets, but that hasn't
been tested much.  Also, the three facet corruptions mentioned
in previous mail will prevent oct2ptcl from working.

oct2ptcl is not a direct replacement for pigilib.  The primary reason
that oct2ptcl is so much faster than pigilib is because it operates directly
on the OCT facets loaded from disk rather than across an RPC link to VEM.
Also, pigilib performs much better error checking and error reporting
(telling you where the problem is).

oct2ptcl is current located at "~kennard/src/oct2ptcl/sun4.opt/oct2ptcl".
Invoke it without any arguments to get a summary of the options.

Why oct2ptcl?
-------------
oct2ptcl was written for two reasons:
1.  As an experiment to see how fast and flexible OCT is. Our current
    translator, pigilib, runs over a very slow RPC link, is poorly written
    and nearly impossible to understand or modify.  oct2ptcl demonstrates
    that these failures are more related to RPC and pigilib than OCT itself.
2.  To enable future extensions to Ptolemy so that stars may reference
    other galaxies and universes by name.  In particular, a Finite State 
    Machine star can reference galaxies by name rather than embedding
    them into the graph via some complex wormhole mechanism.

Problems with ptolemy kernel/ptcl
---------------------------------
1.  Ptcl is an imperative language not declarative.  This makes
    the defgalaxy statements uglier and less orthogonal than they
    could be.
2.  The various different flavors of nets (geodisics) require
    much special case handling.  There are two different flavors
    of "normal" nets (with very different syntax): one for one-to-one
    and one for one-to-many.  In the later case, delays must be specified
    on the output port only.  Bus connections have different
    syntax than scalar connections.  Several flavors of multi-ports connections
    must be handled by oct2ptcl.  Nets going to I/O connectors
    must be handled differently than internal nets (this special case
    is somewhat reasonable).
3.  The syntax "Add.input=3" (to specify that the add has 3 inputs)
    must be processed by oct2ptcl, not in the kernel.
4.  Related to the imperative-ness of ptcl, the outer domain of a defgalaxy
    is hidden.  A given galaxy can only be used within a single outer domain.

Facet corruptions:
-----------------
1.  An instance can be created in one of two ways:
    a) By using the vem "create" command
    b) Using make-star or make-galaxy, and specifing a facet as the palette
       (e.g., instead of user.pal).
    Unfortuantely, the second approach creates galaxy/universe facets;
    in particular,
    the instance is not placed into the INSTANCES bag.  Thus this mechanism
    should not be used except to create palettes.
2.  If a star or galaxy is completly regenerated, all instances of that
    star or galaxy may be broken.  This typically happens when a star
    is replaced by a galaxy: the user makes a galaxy to replace the star,
    and then uses make-galaxy to construct an icon that over-writes the
    previous one.  The problem is that the formalExternalIds of the instance's
    terminals are then bogus.
3.  Some interface facets have duplicate terminals.  That is, a formal
    terminal with the same name will be listed twice.  Even worse, the
    "input" and "output" properties will not be on the right ones.  I
    dont know how these facets get created.  The fix is to go in a
    delete the extra terminals (compare to the octIds of the contents facet),
    and manually add the I/O props (all using attache).

