.\" $Id$
.H1 "Editing Icons"
.pp
Pigi automatically generates icons for stars and galaxies, respectively,
when you invoke the \fImake-star\fP or
\fImake-schem-icon\fP command from the Extend menu.
Pigi puts the new icon in a user-specified palette,
which by default is user.pal in the directory in which you
started pigi.
More or less any VEM manipulations can be performed on this icon,
but some guidelines should be followed.
These icons
have a generic symbol.  To change it,
place the cursor over the icon and execute the
\fIedit-icon\fP (``I'') command in the pigi menu.\**
.IE edit-icon
.(f
\** You must have write
permission on the facet to change the icon.
.)f
A new window containing
the icon facet will appear.
.pp
Remember that icons are stored in interface facets and that the icons
which appear in contents facets are really instances of icons.  These
instances merely refer to the actual icon facet.  The \fIedit-icon\fP
command opens a window into the actual icon.  Any changes made in this
window will affect the appearance of all instances referring to the
icon.
.pp
Recall also that icon facets store a different kind of data from other
facets.  Icon facets contain information that tells VEM how to draw
objects.  Hence, a different set of commands must be used to edit
icons.  Whenever you edit an icon, VEM switches to a different mode
called ``physical editing style''.  In this mode, we create objects
such as lines, boxes, and polygons.  This is in contrast to ``schematic
editing style'' which we used before to create instances and connect
them together with wires.
Physical editing style shares many commands with schematic editing
style.  For example, \fIselect-objects\fP is active in both modes.
A list of useful physical editing style commands and their
key bindings are given in appendix B.
.pp
The commands that create geometry expect a layer argument.  The layer
an object is attached to determines its color and its fill.  To specify
a layer, place the cursor over an object attached to the desired layer
before executing a command.  You can open a palette of layers with the
\fIpalette\fP (``P'') command.
.pp
The layer palette  contains several columns of solid and outline colors,
with the name of the color at the top of the column.  Colors at the top
of each icon will be layered on top of colors below them in the columns.
A set of special layers are arranged at the bottom of the palette.
The layers for icon stems are explained below.  The layers for icon
bodies define the icon background and optional icon shadow.
.pp
A few simple notes will greatly help.
First note that when the icon window is opened, the snap
is automatically set to 5 units.  This is because the default snap
for schematic windows, normally 25 units,
is far too coarse for most icon editing functions.
A reasonable compromise is 5 units, unless you are going to
try to create a very elaborate icon, in which case 1 unit is
probably what you want.  The VEM Options:window-options command
allows you to change the snap.
.pp
When editing an icon, the VEM menu is different than
when you are editing a schematic.  This is because you are working
with the physical view of a facet.  You can explore most of the VEM
commands in the Edit and Selection VEM menus.
Most icons can be created
by experimenting with the following operations:
.ip 1)
Select the default symbol (a star, galaxy, or cluster of galaxies),
by drawing a box (drag the left mouse button)
and typing ``s'' (or using Selection:select-objects in the
menu).  You can unselect with ``u'' or control-u.
An alternative selection method is to place a point and type ``s''.
This usually provokes a dialog box to resolve ambiguities.
Delete whatever parts of the icon you don't want using ``D'' or
Selection:delete-objects.  WARNING: Do not delete terminals!
If you accidentally delete a terminal, the easiest action is
begin again from scratch, asking pigi to create a new icon.
.ip 2)
Bring up the VEM color palette by typing ``P'' (or System:palette in
the menu).
.ip 3)
Draw a line by clicking the left button
to place a point, and pushing and dragging
the mouse button from the same point.  Then move the mouse to desired
color in the palette and type ``c'' (or Edit:create-geometry from the menu).
A line may consist of multiple line segments by just repeatedly pushing
and dragging the mouse button.
.ip 4)
To create filled polygons, place points at the vertices,
then type ``c'' on the appropriate solid color in the palette.
.ip 5)
To create a circle, place a point at the center, a point on
periphery, and type ``C'' on the appropriate color.
To create a filled circle, use a line segment instead of a pair
of points.
.ip 6)
Objects can be moved by selecting them, dragging the mouse
(using the right button)
to produce an image of the object in the desired place, and typing ``m''.
.ip 7)
You may change (or delete) the label that pigi automatically
puts at the bottom of the icon.  To change it, select it and type ``E''
(Edit:edit-label in the menu).  The resulting dialog box is self
explanatory.  The standard Emacs-like editing commands apply.
.ip 8)
BE SURE TO SAVE YOUR ICON.  This can be done by typing ``S''
(System:save-window in the VEM menu).  You can close your window
with control-d.  Note that VEM buffers the data in the window.
You can close it and reopen it without saving it, as long
as the session has not been interrupted.
.pp
By convention, the data types supported by a terminal are indicated
by the color of the stem that connects the terminal to the body
of the icon.  The following colors are currently in use:
.nf
.sp
	ANYTYPE: red
	FLOAT: blue
	INT: yellow
	COMPLEX: white
	PACKET: green
.sp
.fi
The color is currently set automatically by the icon generator
by using layers defined specifically for this purpose, called
anytypeColor, floatColor, intColor, complexColor, and packetColor.
You can change the color
manually, if you wish.  To do this, select the stem, type ``"xxxx"'',
where xxxx is replaced by the color name (the quotes are necessary),
and then type the single character ``l'' (an el \(em
or Edit:change-layer in the menu).
Again, be sure to save the window.
To see what color names are available in the current technology,
execute the VEM ``System:palette'' command, or ``P''.
Note the layers specifically used for icon stems.
.pp
One final editing operation is a little trickier: moving terminals.
Pigi places terminals rather arbitrarily, since it knows nothing
of their function.  You may wish to have a smaller icon
than the default, in which case you have to move the input
terminals closer to the output terminals.
Or may wish to change the order of the terminals,
or you may to have terminals on the top or bottom of the icon rather
than right or left.  All of these can be done, but the
following cautions must be observed:
.ip 1)
Do not move terminals of icons that have already been used
in applications.  Unfortunately, if you do this, the block will
become disconnected in all applications where it is used.
If you are tempted to move terminals in a commonly used block,
consider the tedium of finding all applications (belonging
to all users) and reconnecting the block.
ONLY MOVE TERMINALS ON BRAND NEW ICONS.
.ip 2)
You must respect the default snap of 25 for schematic
windows, and move terminals
to a point that falls on a multiple of 25 units.
Otherwise, connecting to the terminal will be very difficult.
Normally, when the icon window opens, the grid lines are 10 units
apart.  So you can place terminals any multiple of 2.5 grid lines
away from the center.
.ip 3)
To orient terminals so they are aiming up or down, select
the terminal, type ``t'' (or Selection:transform in the menu),
then type ``m'' to move it.  Repeatedly typing ``t'' will continue
to transform the terminal.
.pp
A little more detail on the Oct internals may be useful if you explore
the files that are created by these operations.
For make-schem-icon, if the schematic is called \fIxxx\fR,
then the icon itself is stored in ''\fIxxx\fR/schematic/interface;''.
The semicolon is part of the filename (this creates some
interesting challenges when manipulating this file in Unix,
since Unix interprets the semicolon as a command delimiter).
The standard stars that are normally part of the Ptolemy distribution
are stored in ``~ptolemy/src/domains/\fIdom\fR'', where \fIdom\fR
is the domain name such as ``sdf'' or ``de''.
The icons for the stars are stored in a subdirectory called
.c icons ,
the icons for demo systems in a subdirectory called
.c demo ,
and the source code for the stars are stored in a subdirectory
called
.c stars .
Feel free to explore these directories.
