.\" $Id$
.EQ
delim off
.EN
.H1 "Trouble Shooting"
.pp
This section is a collection common difficulties encountered when
ptolemy is installed.  This list is, of course, by no means complete.
If you can't find your particular problem here, refer to "Additional
Resources" at the end of this section.
.H2 "Permission Denied"
.pp
If when you start pigi you get the message "permission denied"
and the \*(PT greeting window fails to pop up, then Vem was
unable to start pigiRpc, the associated \*(PT process.
This process is started using the Unix "rsh" command.
This command can fail if your workstation does not have
networking enabled, or the user's .rhosts file does not include
the name of the workstation on which you are running.
The following simple test checks your networking and .rhosts configuration:
.(c
        rsh name echo "hello world"
.)c
where "name" is the name of your workstation.  If you get back
"hello world", then your workstation networking is correct.
If you get the "permission denied" message again,
then either your .rhosts is incorrect or networking is turned off
on your workstation.
If the latter is the problem,
please ask your system administrator to enable networking.
.H2 "Graphs fail to appear"
.pp
If you succeed in invoking pigi, but graphs do not appear, but messages
saying that the xgraph program could not be found appear instead,
your path is set incorrectly.  Because pigi uses
.i rsh 
to start up \*(PT, your path
must be defined in your .cshrc file, not just in your .login file.
The path must be defined even when ``prompt'' is not set, since
your .cshrc file will be read in non-interactive mode.
.H2 "Ptolemy won't recompile"
.pp
You may be using a substantially different version of the Gnu compiler.
The system is most likely to build if you use the same tools that we
used originally.  The gnu tools we used are supplied with the Ptolemy
distribution.
.H2 "Old Flowgraphs won't work"
.pp
Several stars that were included in the 0.3.1 release of Ptolemy
have been renamed. 
The objective was to adopt a consistent naming policy across all domains. 
One major benefit of this is the ability to migrate universes and galaxies
from one domain to another. 
A consequence, however, is that some of your
universes and galaxies will have inconsistencies (they will point to icons
that no longer exist in the current release).  Please see the file
"$PTOLEMY/lib/rename/README."  This file explains how to upgrade your
universes and galaxies to the current release. 
.H2 "Error: ld.so:  libXext.so.4: not found"
.pp
You have not installed the shared library needed by Ptolemy when it
is used under Open Windows.  See the "Open Windows" section in the 
installation guide.
.H2 "Additional Resources"
.pp
The best, most complete source for information on Ptolemy is to be found
in the \*)PT manual, the Almagest.  Chances are, the information you
are looking for is in there somewhere.
.pp
The entire manual is included in
every distribution.  In addition, the printed documentation is also
available from the ILP office at the following address:
.(b
	EECS/ERL Industrial Liaison Program Office
        Software Distribution
        479 Cory Hall
        University of California, Berkeley
        Berkeley, CA 94720
	(510) 643-6687
	email: software@hera.berkeley.edu
.)b
The current price is $25. US, but that is subject to change.
Contact them for the exact fee.
.pp
A second source is the "ptolemy-hackers@ohm.berkeley.edu" mailing list.  
This list provides a forum for ptolemy questions and issues.  
Users of the current release 
who have a Ptolemy question, comment, 
or think they've found a bug should send mail to ptolemy-hackers.
.pp
To join ptolemy-hackers, send mail to
.br
"ptolemy-hackers-request@ohm.berkeley.edu
.br
with the Subject "ADD ME."
.pp
Another source is the Ptolemy ftp archive.  To access this, use
anonymous FTP to ptolemy.berkeley.edu.
.EQ
delim $$
.EN
.\" Local variables:
.\" mode: nroff
.\" End:
