This directory contains files contributed by TkMan users.  These files are
not supported or installed.  They are included because some may find them
useful, and if so they prevent duplication of effort.

-----

tkman.bitmap - Rei Shinozuka
TkMan.xpm - by Roar Smith
AIcons.bitmap - Anthony Thyssen
hman.xbm - taken from Baudoulin Raoult's hman
tkman.xbm - Mike Eggleston
tkman.xpm - drawn by Ion Cionca, contributed by Dimitry Kloper

These are a possible icons for TkMan.  Submissions for alternative icons
are welcome.

To use an icon, specify its path name in the Preferences/Icon dialog box
(under the Occasionals menu) or as a command line option.

-----

xman-mandesc.tcl - Dietmar Theobald (theobald@fzi.de)

Parse your old xman mandesc in TkMan.

-----

remote.tcl

This code shows how to use the `send' command to call TkMan from another
Tcl/Tk application.

-----

tkman_selection.txt - Scott Schwartz <schwartz@groucho.cse.psu.edu>
tkmanclient - Chris Siebenmann <cks@hawkwind.utcs.toronto.edu>
              changes by Anthony Baxter <anthony@aaii.oz.au>

These two provide an alternative interface to TkMan, via the X selection or
the command line, respectively.

-----

calltkman.tcl - Neil Smithline (Neil.Smithline@eng.sun.com)

Adding the code for callTkMan to your .tkman file causes tkman to
bring up a second window labeled "callTkMan".  The intent of this
window is to provide a convenient mechanism for kicking off tkman
searches without keeping the entire tkman window open on your screen.

-----

sgi_bindings.tcl -
	Paul Raines (raines@bohr.physics.upenn.edu),
	Craig Ruff (cruff@ncar.ucar.edu),
	and Scott Nelson (nelson18@llnl.gov)

Copy this file into your home directory and name it .tkman in order to
establish the many volume groupings used by SGI.  You can edit the
.tkman file to change the groupings, splitting out a group of
particular interest, or merging some if you don't like 47 different
groupings, most of which are sparsely populated.

-----

sco_bindings.tcl - anonymous

Details changes to make to tkman.tcl before `compiling' (`make'ing) to
adapt TkMan to SCO UNIX.

-----

solaris_bindings.tcl - Will C Lauer (wcl@cadre.com)

Instead of collecting volumes that start with same character under a single
volume listing (e.g., 1, 1b, 1c, 1f, 1m and 1s all collected under 1),
keep them separate.

-----

local-man.tcl

Use the local man command as the search engine for manual pages.
(For perl man, set the flag in the first few lines.)

Features lost:
* volume listings, including list of recently added/changed
* all tkmandesc commands
* regular expression searches for man page names

-----

retkman ("re-TkMan"), suggested by Howard Moftich

Kill existing TkMen and start a new one, picking up any changes
to MANPATH such as those imparted by a modules package.

-----


WANTED

a tutorial for tkmandesc commands
