.\" $Id$
.\" Be sure you have properly checked
.\" out this file with SCCS (the version number should not be a number above):
.H1 "Acknowledgements"
.pp
Ptolemy has had a number of contributors.
The overall coordinators are Prof. Edward A. Lee and Prof.
David G. Messerschmitt of the EECS department at UC Berkeley, although
there has also been involvement by the groups of Profs. Rabaey, Brodersen,
Linnartz, and Kahn.
Joseph Buck has been responsible for
key management of the development of the kernel,
and hence has impacted every aspect of Ptolemy.
He also coordinated virtually all contributions, and
authored both the interpreter and the ptlang preprocessor.
Other key contributors to the kernel include Soonhoi Ha
and Ichiro Kuroda.
Soonhoi Ha authored the DDF, DE, and CGC domains, including
many of the basic stars and the basic domain interface, and
also made extensive contributions to the CG domain, the kernel,
and parallel schedulers of all types.
Philip Bitar had a major impact on the design of the DE domain.
Jose Pino has been pimarily responsible for the code generation
domains, although extensive contributions have been made by Soonhoi Ha,
Preveen Murthy, Thomas M. Parks, and Kennard White.
Chih-Tsung Huang, with some help from Jose Pino, singlehandedly ported
all the assembly code generation stars from Gabriel.
Shuvra Bhattacharyya and Joe Buck wrote the loop scheduling mechanism,
and Shuvra Bhattacharyya contributed the Gantt chart display tool.
Seungjun Lee wrote the Thor domain, although some contributions
to it have been made by Asawaree Kalavade.
Ichiro Kuroda from NEC contributed
to the development of the state handling mechanism.
The graphical interface
was written by Edwin Goei, and has been enhanced by several
people, including Wan-Teh Chang.
Andrea Casotto has provided modifications
and improvements to VEM that have considerably improved the user interface.
.pp
Several people have had a major impact on the development of Ptolemy
through their major efforts on its predecessor, Gabriel.
Phil Lapsley has had incalculable impact on the directory structure,
project management, documentation, and code generation efforts in Ptolemy.
The first version of the graphical interface
was written by Holly Heine.
.pp
Many people have had an impact on the current release by contributing stars
and/or demo programs.  These include, in addition to all the
people mentioned above, Rachel Bowers, Rolando Diesta, Alireza Khazeni,
Erick Hamilton, Gregory Walter, and Chris Yu (from the Naval
Research Laboratories).  Others had an indirect impact by contributing
stars or demo programs to the predecessor program, Gabriel.
These include Jeff Bier, Martha Fratt, Eric Guntvedt, Mike Grimwood,
Wai-Hung Ho, Steve How, Jonathan Lee, Brian Mountford, Maureen O'Reilly,
Andria Wong, and Anthony Wong.
.pp
Ptolemy is very much an ongoing project, with current efforts
expected to be included in future releases.
Participants in those efforts will be acknowledged when their
work is included in a release.
.H1 SUPPORT
.pp
The Ptolemy project started in late 1989.
A variety of sponsors have directly or indirectly supported
the effort.  Most notably, these include:
AT&T,
Bell Northern Research (BNR),
Comdisco Systems,
DARPA,
Dolby Laboratories,
GTE Government Systems,
Hitachi America,
Hitachi Ltd.,
Hughes Network Systems,
Hughes Research Laboratories,
Motorola,
the National Science Foundation (NSF),
the Naval Research Laboratories (NRL),
NEC,
Philips,
Rockwell,
the Semiconductor Research Corporation (SRC),
the State of California MICRO Program,
Sony,
and Star Semiconductor.
In kind contributions have also been received from Ariel,
Berkeley Camera Engineering,
Texas Instruments,
Spectrum Signal Processing,
Signal Technology Inc. (STI),
and Xilinx.
Other sponsors have contributed indirectly by supporting
Gabriel, the predecessor.
